1. To have alias for IP address. Add the IP address to /etc/hosts file
  192.168.1.10    db
  
  Now you can ping using the alias name
  ping db (While pinging the db will be resolved from /etc/hosts file)
  
  Whatever we put in the /etc/hosts file is the source of truth. Host A does not check to make sure if the
  Ip address hostname is correct not not. Even we can fool our host like, puutting some Ip address as google
  in hosts file like this 
  192.168.2.2    www.google.com

  Now if we ping www.google.com it will reach that Ip address  
  Translating Hostname to Ip address is known as Named Resolution
  
  Within a small network of few systems, you can easily get away with the entries in the /etc/hosts file. In each system,
  we have to do this changes to resolve based on name. If the nework becomes big and the system are more, its very difficult 
  to manage the entries. If one of the IP address are changed, we have to modify the IP address in all hosts.
  
  Thats where we decided to move all these entries into a single server whi will manage it centrally, we call that as DNS server
  and we point all hosts to look up that server if they need to resolve the hostname to an IP address instead of its own /etc/hosts file
  
2. To point host to a DNS server. The DNS server will have an IP address (eg. 192.168.2.100)
  Every host has a DNSrseolution configuration file at /etc/resolve.conf. We have to add entry in that like this
  nameserver    192.168.2.100
  
  Once this is configured on all of your host, every time a host comes across a hostname that it does not know about, it looks it up from
  the DNS server. If the Ip of any of the host was to change, simply update the DNS server and all host should resolve the new IP address going forward
  We no longer need any entries in the /etc/hosts file in any of the hosts, but that does not mean we can't have entries in hosts file.
  We still can, for example you provision a test server for our own needs, then this can be added only in out /etc/hosts file so only we will be able to 
  resolve the name
  
  What if we have entries in both places, one in etc/hosts file and another in DNS server
  /etc/hosts
  192.168.1.115    test
  
  And in the DNS server as
  192.168.1.116    test
  
  In this case, it first look the /etc/hosts file and then it checks the DNS server. If it finds in the /etc/hosts file then it will that name there, If it
  didn't find it there, then it will read it from DNS server
  
  This oeder can changed in the /etc/nsswitch.conf The line with hosts entry, the order is files and follwed by dns
  Files refer to /etc/hosts file and dns refer to DNS server
  
  To reach other websites, it is configured in DNS server, if no matche are present, then forward to public hoster DNS server hosted by google
  
  .com top level domain
  google is the domain name assigned to Google company
  maps, www, drive are the sub domains
  
  when we try to reach any of these domain names, say apps.google.com, it first hits our organization internal DNS server 
  If it didnt find it will forward to the public hosted DNS server it will serch in multiple such servers and resolves it
  In order to seep up all future results, our organization,s DNS server may choose to cache this IP for few munutes
  
  Similary our organizations internal application can be pointed by domain name from organization DNS server
  
3. To ping using short name(sub domain name) and to append the domain name automatically
  Add the domain names in the /etc/resolv.conf file as
  search mycompany.com prod.mycompany.com
  
  If first match is not found it will search with second domain name
  
  A -- for IP4
  AAAA -- for IPV6
  CNAME -- name to name
  
4. nslookup or dig (To the Ip address and some details from the domain name)
  nslookup does not consider entries in the local /etc/hosts file
  
  
  
  